---
layout: post
title: "Game AI for AGENT a Stealthgame"
thumbnail: "../assets/images/agent.jpg"
categories:
  - private
tags:
  - private
---

Agent is a third-person stealth shooter inspired by the famous video game series Hitman. Sneak past the guards to remain undetected and eliminate all targets. If you are detected, guards or civilians will sound the alarm or call for reinforcement.

I collaborated with a friend to develop the game. While his focus was on level design, animation, and fine-tuning the Unity Engine, I took charge of implementing the AI for Agent. Each AI operates through a state tree that synchronizes with every other AI agent. They possess the ability to hear and see the player, reacting accordingly. Additionally, they interact with the environment, follow designated pathways, and can identify dead bodies. Once alerted, they initiate patrolling the area and engage in combat upon detecting the player.
The system is completly modular and can be adjusted for each type of enemy / civilian.

Each level has a timer to record how long it took you to complete the level. The level times are tracked and can be used as a high score ranking or as an incentive to try again and get better. The faster and quieter you are, i.e. killing the least amount of non-targets, the more points you get.

## My contributions
-   The modular Ai System
-   Performance optimization
-   Sound Design & Music Production
-   Character-Controller

## Details
-   Developed using Unity3D
-   Implemented using C#