---
layout: post
title: "Bachlor Thesis"
thumbnail: "../assets/images/bachelor.jpg"
categories:
  - university
tags:
  - university
  - thesis
---

My bachelor thesis was about the segmnentation of 3D MRI imaging.

## Automated MRI Segmentation with an Attention-Based UNet3+ Implementation

Brain tumors are among the deadliest types of cancer. As an early diagnosis of brain tumors is crucial for medical treatment and patient survival, there is a tremendous interest in reliable methods for automated brain tumor segmentation using MR imaging. While earlier approaches had no unified attestation, the goal of the BraTS challenge is to provide a standardized evaluation. Deep learning approaches have become popular within the BraTS challenge, especially encoder-decoder architectures like UNet proved successful. Outside the BraTS challenge, UNet3+, a successor of UNet, was able to outperform different UNet implementations. The authors argue that the skip connections in UNet do not make enough use of full-scale image data and therefore connect them with multiple preceding layers. Even though UNet3+ seems promising and we want to evaluate it on the BraTS data set, we argue that the full-scale skip connections add a lot of redundant data. Trying to solve this, we present Attention UNet3+, a UNet3+ implementation incorporating so-called attention gates. With attention, it is possible to focus on specific areas in the image and remove unnecessary information, thus improving the overall accuracy. While attention had success in other UNet architectures, there has been no attention based UNet3+ approach yet. In addition, since the attention gates should filter redundant data, we present a variant of Attention UNet3+ with revised skip connections, in which all decoder nodes are connected to each preceding layer. We evaluate UNet3+, Attention UNet3+, the revised Attention UNet3+, and a baseline version of UNet as a reference on the BrATS 2020 data set and compare them to previous participants.

## Image Source

- B. H. Menze, A. Jakab, S. Bauer, J. Kalpathy-Cramer, K. Farahani, J. Kirby, et al., “The multimodal brain tumor image segmentation benchmark (brats),” IEEE transactions on medical imaging, vol. 34, no. 10, pp. 1993–2024, 2015.

- S. Bakas, H. Akbari, A. Sotiras, M. Bilello, M. Rozycki, J. S. Kirby, J. B. Freymann, K. Farahani, and C. Davatzikos, “Advancing the cancer genome atlas glioma mri collections with expert segmentation labels and radiomic features,” Scientific data, vol. 4, p. 170117, 2017.

- S. Bakas, M. Reyes, A. Jakab, S. Bauer, M. Rempfler, A. Crimi, R. T. Shinohara, C. Berger, S. M. Ha, M. Rozycki, et al., “Identifying the best machine learning algorithms for brain tumor segmentation, progression assessment, and overall survival prediction in the brats challenge,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.02629, 2018.

- S. Bakas, H. Akbari, A. Sotiras, M. Bilello, M. Rozycki, J. Kirby, J. Freymann, K. Farahani, and C. Davatzikos, “Segmentation labels for the pre-operative scans of the tcga-gbm collection,” 2017.

- S. Bakas, H. Akbari, A. Sotiras, M. Bilello, M. Rozycki, J. Kirby, J. Freymann, K. Farahani, and C. Davatzikos, “Segmentation labels for the pre-operative scans of the tcga-lgg collection,” 2017.
